# Launch Examples

This directory contains example apps demonstrating an application
launch.

To use these examples:
1. `yarn install` in the project root
2. `yarn install` in the example subdirectory you are interested in
3. In the example code, you could modify `<CLIENT_ID>` and/or `<CLIENT_SECRET>`
   as needed. FYI: The [SMART sandbox](https://launch.smarthealthit.org) will
   accept any values for these.
4. `yarn start` to serve the web app through port 3000.
5. To test with external servers, try tunneling to localhost:3000 with a
   service like [ngrok](http://ngrok.com/).

## [examples/confidential-smart-ehr](./confidential-smart-ehr)

This example provides two routes, `/launch` and `/callback`, through
which an EHR may launch the SMART app within the EHR's provided launch
context. This example demonstrates a confidential app, meaning that the
application runs on a trusted server and can protect secret data, such
as the CLIENT_SECRET variable.

An EHR can then visit the launch route with two parameters: iss and
launch. The SMART app will make a request to the OAuth server's
authorization URL. Then, it will redirect to the SMART app callback.

In the callback route, another request is made (using the simple-oauth
library) to request a token from the OAuth2 server. The server will then
send back a launch_context containing, among other things, an access
token to set in the Authorization header and use for subsequent FHIR
requests (to the ISS).

## [examples/public-smart-ehr](./public-smart-ehr)

The public-smart-ehr example is almost identical to the
confidential-smart-ehr code above, but it is assumed that this app would
be downloaded to a device and run in an environment that cannot protect
a client secret (eg. a browser). This means that the public-smart-ehr
app:

  - is assumed to run on an end-user's device rather than on a trusted
    server
  - cannot protect secret variables (in this case, CLIENT_SECRET)
  - should be hosted within a trusted server environment

The app's launch URL is required to be preregistered with the EHR. This
required step helps to mitigate security risks. Because the public app
is the less secure option with no ability to store confidential
information, it is recommended that refresh tokens for public apps have
a shorter lifetime.

To use, refer to the first two paragraphs of the confidential-smart-ehr
example above. The only difference for this public example is that it
does not require a client secret.

An EHR can then visit the launch route with two parameters: iss and
launch. The SMART app will make a request to the OAuth server's
authorization URL. Then, it will redirect to the SMART app callback.

In the callback route, another request is made (using the simple-oauth
library) to request a token from the OAuth2 server. The server will then
send back a launch_context containing, among other things, an access
token to set in the Authorization header and use for subsequent FHIR
requests (to the ISS).

## [examples/smart-standalone](./smart-standalone)

This example provides the same routes above, but instead of an EHR
launching from the `/launch` route, a user would directly visit the
route with two different parameters: iss and scope. For example:

`https://localhost:3000/launch?iss=http://example.com/fhir&scope=openid%20profile%20offline_access%20user%2F*.*%20patient%2F*.*%20launch%2Fencounter%20launch%2Fpatient`

The EHR will again then provide a launch context and access token.

To run, follow the same instructions above listed for the
*examples/confidential-smart-ehr* example.

## [examples/cds-hooks](./cds-hooks)

This example triggers a Clinical Decision Support (CDS) app from within
an EHR according to [CDS Hooks
specifications](https://cds-hooks.org/specification/1.0/).

The `/cds-services` route provides a CDS Hooks "discovery endpoint" that
informs the EHR which CDS services the SMART app offers and serves
configuration data for the EHR to consume.

Once an EHR consumes this discovery endpoint and is configured to supply
the specified prefetch data, it will be able to launch the
`cds-services/patient-greeter` route. The EHR would post to this route a
request body with FHIR authorization details, prefetch data, and more.

In this example app, an access token may be supplied to the FHIR client
instance in order to make an asynchronous `MedicationOrder` request
based on the provided EHR patient. The resulting CDS Hook "card" greets
the patient by name based on prefetch data and offers a count of
medication orders based on the asynchronous request. (Note that if no
data is required beyond that supplied in the prefetch, a card could be
served without needing the FHIR client instance.)

### JWT (JSON Web Token) Validation

All requests in the example are first directed through the
`authenticateEHR` middleware.

`authenticateEHR` expects a JSON Web Token (JWT) from the EHR's
authorization request header. It is used to establish that the request
is from a trusted party. The JWT can be verified by one of 3 different
ways in this example:

  1) By setting a PEM file in the current directory on line 15 of
     `cds-hooks-launch.js`.
  2) By generating a PEM file from a `jku` variable set on line 16.
  3) By generating a PEM file from a `jku` in the decoded JWT header.

The library `jwk-to-pem` takes RSA or EC fields from a JWK to generate a
public key. Both RSA and ECC algorithms are supported.

To generate a public key through a private key from the EHR, use
openssl, .e.g:

`openssl ec -in ecprivatekey.pem -pubout -out ecpublickey.pem`
